All right.
So in this video we're just going to take our rock paper scissors game that we've already built.
And if you didn't do that I have started code and if you want to follow along so the game is very simple
right now it only plays one time.
And what we're going to do is make it more of a game so that it will repeat and we'll start by just
making it repeat three times.
But we'll end by making it repeat until somebody wins let's say two out of three or three out of five.
Totally up to you how you want to implement it but we'll have it repeat until either the human player
wins or the computer wins.
So it becomes more of a game.
So here's the starter code.
This was the final version I made in the Rock Paper Scissors section.
Let's just run it once Python three which they call it with loop.
OK so enter our choice and say rock not wreck rock.
A computer plays paper computer went OK.
So we want to just automate this have it happened three times.
So that's very simple.
All that we do is take all of the code we want to repeat and indent it just like that and put it in
a loop.
So our loop will be we could just do for X or a time in range 3.
So this is the simplest version.
It just repeats three times every time.
So let's clear and try again.
What do you know.
Forgot my colon.
So they called.
OK.
So if they rock and it asks again so is it tied the first time.
And to your choice.
So we'll do four.
What am I thinking.
Paper so Computer 1 and that's do scissors.
And then it finishes.
So already we have a simple game that run three times but it's still still it's still dumb.
No offense to our game but it's dumb in that it doesn't know who wins.
So rather than doing a for loop that repeats a set number of times.
Let's actually make this keep going and tell a human the human player or the computer wins.
So to do that we need to keep track of the number of wins.
So let's do player wins equals zero and computer wins equals zero.
OK so I'll say something like wow the player wins.
It's less than two.
And computer wins is less than two.
So let's do that while player wins.
It's less than two and computer wins is less than two.
We're going to repeat all of this.
So get rid of that for loop.
Now the thing is we're not ever adding to player win so let's do that now.
So any time down here we see computer wins.
We'll add one two computer wins.
So computer wins plus equals 1.
If we see player wins I will say player wins plus equals 1.
I'm just going to copy this now.
So next time we see player wins I guess I put you win instead of say player wins.
And same thing down here.
And if we see computer wins
let's go down.
This is kind of messy.
By the way we haven't really seen better ways of refactoring your code but once we learn functions things
will be a little cleaner.
But wherever we see computer wins where else are we set we add one to the computer when to score.
And once again here.
The other thing we should do is at the beginning let's print out the scores.
So let's say print let's do an F string
player score and we'll add player score or player wins and then we'll do space.
Computer score and do the same thing just so we can see what's happening.
Computer wins.
OK.
Let's see if I have any typos.
Let's see what happens.
So let me clear this make some space and start to zero to zero.
So I'm going to play paper first.
And says it's a tie.
So it's still 0 2 0 this time.
So let's enter paper again.
And no computer played rock so oh no I'm crazy computer played rocks or I won swing of emotions there
and you can see the player scores one computer score is zero.
So this time let's do scissors.
The computer won.
So now it's one to one.
So whoever wins this one unless it's a tie.
Let's go with paper again.
To tie.
So it's still one to 1.
This is this is riveting.
Let's do rock.
No the computer won.
And you can see the game finished.
So that's actually pretty good.
I mean it works.
It really changes it adds a whole new dimension to the game.
There's a couple changes we can make though.
The first is that at the end we're never printing out who won two at the end.
We could just add a simple print statement that would say something like.
Final score.
And let's just copy what we had a.
This whole string actually like this and all the final scores.
Player
and computer will be able to see one.
And if we wanted we could add a conditional to say congratulations or I'm sorry.
So let's just do this really quickly test it out.
I'm going to go paper every time.
OK well you can see how I actually did one too many times.
Player one with two computer lost because only one one time.
Cool.
So we got a conditional down here or something like if said let's do player score or player wins is
greater than computer wins.
Then we'll print can Gretz you one else.
PRINCE Oh no you.
The computer 1 this do that.
OK.
So get rid of the final scores at the end.
And the reason I decided to if player wins is greater than computer wins rather than player wins is
equal to two because right now that's how a player wins or the computer wins.
Is that I want to leave room to actually update this so we might want to play best of three or best
of five.
So what I could do instead is make a variable called winning score and set it equal to two and replace
this.
Hopefully that makes sense why I would do that so now if I wanted to make the game best of five I just
change this or if I want to make the first person to five I make winning score equal to five or let's
say three.
So it won't take as long and test it clear everything out and I'll play rock and rock and rock every
time we're getting a lot of ties.
OK.
And you can see that it was the first person to reach three was me.
I had two.
And then I won again.
So my score went to three.
Congrats you won.
OK.
And if I wanted to I could change it back to 1.
No it's just a single game unless it's a tie.
So let's say play paper and I won.
So it's over.
So we've made it a bit more flexible rather than hard coding too.
OK.
So the last thing let's add in a break.
So I'll put this back get three wins.
And the reason we might want to add an A break is if the user wants to quit prematurely before you want
to forfeit.
Right now we have to force quit it with like Control C or D and basically end the entire Python process.
But what we could do is once the user enters input which where's that happening player because input
right here.
Well just you if input equals equals quits or let's even add in put equals Q break.
And that's it.
OK.
So let's try it.
So I'm playing rock.
And then I decide you know what I want to quit.
So I tape quit didn't work.
So what did we do wrong or what did I do wrong.
Let's see if off that would be the problem.
Testing input equals.
We need to test it for a variable player is equal.
OK.
So let's do my not so graceful quick.
This is a problem as you can see trying to get out of here.
We want to add quit.
There we go.
So now we have our quit implemented Let's try it.
So we're going to play paper and I decide after two I'm done.
Let's type quit and it says oh no the computer won and that's fine.
There is technically a small loophole here.
If we're tied at the end of the game it's still going to say that the computer won.
So we could add in one more thing here would be if player wins equals computer wins.
Prince it's a tie.
Now this only happens if we quit the game when it's a tie.
Else.
Oh no the computer won.
All right.
Finally let's test it and be done with this.
OK.
So let's say Can I get a tie.
Let's do paper and it's a tie again right.
So it's a tie right now.
Perfect.
So if I type q or quit we get to tie.
All right.
So this is kind of a cool moment for us.
It's the first thing we've built that feels sort of substantial I mean it's a lot of code relative to
what we've done you know relative to printing out little Modise in a row and it involves a lot more
logic.
We've got a big loop that runs potentially a lot of times it might run once but if we're doing a best
of 10 for doing the first of five it's going to run a lot especially if we keep getting ties and draws.
Right.
Because if we could use a for loop and just have it run five times.
But if we get a draw then there won't actually be a winner.
Potentially and it will always run five times versus here.
If we're doing the best the first three we might have a 100 tie games first and then somebody finally
wins.
Then we added in the chance to break.
If you quit using quit or Q And yeah we printed out at the end.
Who won.
So kind of a long video but hopefully kind of fun to make this bit a bit more of a game.